# New-but-working-it-well..or delete the app at any time. 2. What the app does The app helps support the overall national public health response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic by assisting members of the public through the following functions. . Exposure Notification – to attempt to notify you as quickly as possible should you have been in close and sustained contact with someone who has tested positive to COVID-19. . News and Information – to attempt to give you convenient facts and figures about COVID-19 in Nevada. . Other Functions – the app can collect metric data (see section 3.3) that is based upon metrics and will remain anonymous which is used only by the State of Nevada and the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) public health teams to assist in monitoring how the app is contributing to the response efforts and get a better understanding of the spread of the virus. It is important to know that removing the app from your phone will delete all data collected. . 3. About the COVID Trace App 3.1 How Exposure Notification works Existing manual contact tracing processes (i.e. collecting information directly from people about phone or in person contact) rely on people being able to remember who they have been in contact with recently, and how long that contact lasted. In many cases people do not know the identity of other people they have been in contact with (for example, if the contact occurred on a bus or train, at a concert, a restaurant or some other public venue).
